well how do you know internet people
it's Paragon and so today we're going to
be talking to the person primarily wash
service my name is Jen Perlman and I am
the person primary and Debbie
wasserman-schultz in Florida's 23rd
congressional district we are down here
in mostly we're Broward we have a little
bit of Dade County in our district so
just so people have an idea of where we
are we are an exceptionally
gerrymandered blue district and we also
have closed primaries and that is one of
the ways in which that our incumbent has
been sitting safely for so many years so
as far as me I am a second-generation
native Floridian I was born and raised
in North Miami Beach I have degrees in
journalism marketing and law and I was a
practicing attorney doing criminal
defense and then after that doing some
corporate litigation and some other
things when I moved down here to Florida
I was gone for the Rica I was gone for a
few years getting my degrees came back
home where I have now been since 2003 so
I have been watching her as my Congress
person for 15 years 16 years 16 years
she's been our Congress person and over
that time she has taken inordinate
amounts of money from special interests
and corporate interests that are very
contrary to our interests and as a
Floridian and one of the main things
that people have noticed down here is
the the hurting of our environment and
one of the causes of our problems
whether it's blue-green algae or red
tide being exacerbated is the industrial
agricultural runoff and one of the
biggest sources of that is the big sugar
industry and that is one of Debbie's
biggest corporate donors as big sugar so
I've just been watching for years as
these corporations and their interests
have basically been dismantling our
interests and so when I saw in 18
that several non corporate candidates
were able to break through the
establishment I felt that maybe the
timing was somewhat maybe we're there
maybe we're at the breaking point where
people are starting to recognize that
the corporate takeover has not served us
and maybe there is an opportunity now to
come in and try to get that money out so
my involvement now is more of a timing
thing even though I've been involved in
policy and campaigns since before I was
old enough to vote so for those people
outside of Florida explain to them what
the runoff does especially to those of
us up here in the Panhandle when our
beaches go anyway okay so it's
complicated and I I know I have spoken
with several people who are experts on
this who really understand it sometimes
their voices starts to sound like the
teacher from Charlie Brown you know with
some of this stuff but essentially what
what has happened is we have industrial
agricultural industries now Florida
happens to be very big with sugar but
there's other ones it's not only big
sugar and essentially what has happened
is south of Lake Okeechobee where a lot
of these agricultural plants are is
their industrial runoff is causing this
exacerbated bloom of this toxic
blue-green algae in our water now the
blue-green algae is more of an inland
water problem whereas red tide is much
more of a coastal problem and both of
those things would be naturally
occurring but they would not be
exacerbated at the rate they are so the
way if you were to look at a map of
Florida where Lake Okeechobee goes and
you were to look south of Lake
Okeechobee that used to all be
Everglades and what the what would
naturally happen with any sort of runoff
is the Everglades would actually clean
it the Everglades act as a filter it's a
natural filter for our water that we do
use as our drinking water but what
happens now is companies that are big
sugar companies they own that land that
south of Lake Okeechobee and they do
not let it do what it's meant to
naturally do and instead it's being
blocked and our water is not getting
naturally filtered and then I I know
that they're getting subsidies so in
other words in order its I try to
explain it we need to deal with this
like they're children
so we need to incentivize good behavior
and we need to disincentivize the bad
behavior and instead what we're doing is
by giving sugar subsidies and I'm sure
many other of our industrial polluters
are given subsidies it's not just sugar
that's just what I'm familiar with so
we're giving them subsidies so we're
essentially encouraging them to not
allow us to use the Everglades for
natural filtration and to not reduce
their level of contamination and runoff
in to our inland waters and instead
we're promoting it so what do we want to
be maybe
taxing the companies at a higher rate
for the amount of pollution as opposed
to encouraging it I would think so but
I'm not somebody taking money from big
sugar so I just I think that the
appearance of impropriety with my
particular congressperson and this
particular issue is very very huge you
know up here when when I was younger
we'd get red tide like maybe once every
three or four years and it won't last
long and it wouldn't be a big deal it's
every year now and they end up a lot of
times end up closing the beaches are
throwing the biological warning signs
flags up and stuff like that it's a pain
it really is okay so what what's your
ideology are you a social democrat or
democratic socialist are you where where
are you at on that spectrum because I
see a lot of parallels with some other
upstart people in the House of
Representatives yeah you know the label
thing is very interesting to me because
you know I never really understood why
Bernie calls himself a Democratic
Socialist because that doesn't seem to
me to be he is a social democrat and I
actually wish he had said that from the
beginning and instead giving all this
sort of ammunition
to the right to use the term socialism
like it's some horrible scary thing I
you know what I don't I don't
necessarily have one particular ism and
what I would like to I'm concerned it's
about justice it's about social justice
economic justice and environmental
justice and more than anything it's
about punching up so I would say that
the key point of my campaign and what
distinguishes us is that we see it as
actually as a term of service and not a
career so I have no career motives I
have no career ambition in this
whatsoever this is something that I want
to do is the service I want to get the
money out I want to represent regular
people I believe that certain industries
such as for example health care public
education and Corrections should never
be for profit there should never be a
profit motive in those particular
industries however with regards to let's
say you invent a widget and you want to
rip people off and make millions of
dollars by selling your widget I'm all
about capitalism if you want to do that
and and you can get very wealthy
properly treating your employees and not
polluting the environment and paying
your taxes I'm all for it so I wouldn't
say that I'm not in favor of capitalism
but I just don't think that the people
that are getting that wealthy could get
that wealthy without stealing that money
so I I think that if I've met a
billionaire that I truly believe earned
that fairly I wouldn't have a problem
with that I just don't think it's
possible
honest I know one like very very
extremely wealthy person that got it
honestly and he will tell you more than
anything it was luck he bought a bunch
of land that wound a resort up here
wanted to buy it right and he went from
nothing to having hundreds of millions
like overnight but he'll be the first
one to tell you it was luck yeah it
wasn't hard work except that people like
Jeff Bezos work harder than my husband
or my dad did or anybody else who just
is a working person
so there is no and in fact some of the
hardest-working people are some of the
poorest people in this country so to say
that there's somehow a meritocracy or
somehow they've earned that money nobody
earns a billion dollars that like that
it nobody works that hard ok so let's
get to breaking down on specific issues
here in Florida one that's definitely
going to be coming up guns we're yet
that's funny because the past few days
I've actually had a couple people and of
course these are people in the community
where I'm in that are I've been very
affected by not just Stoneman Douglas
but we are talking about the wealthy
educated suburban sort of gun fear
factor is is what it really seems like
to me and I have a couple of thoughts on
it I mean I support any and all federal
regulations background checks registries
I think people should have to take
courses to be able to own firearms I
have no problem with any of that but
interestingly thanks to you I am no
longer a supporter of banning assault
weapons even though I will say in my
state I had prior to watching your
series I had signed the petition for the
amendment to ban assault weapons I don't
know that it'll necessarily go anywhere
and my thought on that is it is it's a
band-aid that is gonna make a whole
group of people feel better but not
actually accomplish anything and I think
at the same time when you well banning
things in general has just never really
been the way to go but I do a lot of
work in the black community and in more
disenfranchised communities and banning
assault weapons will really not do
anything at all to help them with the
issues that they have with gun violence
so when people in the disenfranchised
communities see an event like parkland
and it gets everybody all up in arms and
freaking out and we got to do this and
we got to do that and ban this and do
that a lot of the people in the
communities that I work with feel that
that is a very white privileged somewhat
mentality because we've never cared so
much about
gun violence in their neighborhoods and
we don't really care about really
handling the basis of what our problem
is so my thoughts on gun and I am very
familiar with a well-regulated militia
and it isn't a Second Amendment issue
it's a sick Society issue but in general
I believe in any regulations to regulate
who can have weapons as best as we can
but banning I just don't think it'll
work so that's my that's my opinion on
the Second Amendment
all right Medicare for all I am a strong
proponent of single-payer I do not think
we should have any profit motive in
healthcare for any essential services I
don't think we should have insurance
companies providing duplicate of
services I think as soon as we allow
that we have a two-tiered system which
will inevitably go to hurt the most
disenfranchised people so to me the only
way to safeguard healthcare is a human
right is for me to have the same
insurance as my Congress person who is
my employee who has amazingly good
health coverage interestingly and if we
all have the same coverage we will all
have the same vested interest in
protecting the quality of our care so I
don't I don't like the idea of a
two-tiered system I don't like the idea
of a public option I think those will
not give a real we won't get an idea as
to how well single-payer can work so
long as we're allowing any profit motive
in our system okay all right what's
another big win here in Florida the
school voucher thing imagine you have
some opinions on that I do I do have
opinions
um like I was saying I mean public
education is like health care in that it
should not have a profit motive and I
don't necessarily have a problem with
the concept of some charter schools we
have a couple down here that are
nonprofit that they actually go through
the municipalities and they function
very much just like any public school
and as a result they are very good
our schools so I don't necessarily have
a problem with more of a privatization
if there's not a profit motive in it and
it is still a public service so it
really depends on in nature but as far
as vouchers that is just another way for
people to siphon the money out of our
public services and give it to private
industry so that is nothing that I would
support and all it's doing is lowering
the quality of our public education
because even with a voucher most of the
people couldn't afford to go to a
private school with that amount of money
anyway so you're you're you're just it's
at one of them as another band-aid it's
another thing that makes people like
they have a choice they like this idea
of having a choice well I could choose
to spend my money here or there yeah
yeah I'm a choice but you're lowering
the quality of the choice for everybody
else so I I don't think that choice is
good if the choices are not quality
choices but ultimately health care and
education specifically are to me they're
not costs those are investments and for
us to compare that to something like
let's say war cost makes no sense
healthcare and education are in the best
interest of everybody in this country
nobody is better off with uneducated
sick people amongst us so it doesn't
even make sense to call it a cost it's
an investment and I don't think we have
even begun to realise the payoff of
those investments certainly not with
healthcare because we don't have
universal health care but even with
public education in this country it's
always been woefully underfunded it's
never been teachers are not properly
compensated we devalue the quality of
education and we devalue the nature of
the people that provide that education
so that only hurts us all I you know
it's amazing to me I don't see how
anybody would begrudge investing in
educating our citizenry I it's I just
don't understand that at all now I
definitely feel you let's see
I mean it's Florida immigrations not
really now let's ask about immigration
where you
yet on that personally I think ice is an
unnecessary organization I think it's
superfluous I think we don't need it I
think we did fine patrolling our borders
and keeping ourselves safe from an
immigration standpoint we did fine prior
to ice and to me it the way that it is
being used now that could be just how
the people at the top are training and
implementing and it might not be just
the nature of ice but to me it seems
like almost a fascist Gestapo just
basically with the sole purpose of
hurting people I don't see them as
protecting and serving I don't see the
people that they're going after is being
assessed necessarily dangerous to
society and the mannerism in which they
are going about doing their job is a
level of brutality that should just not
exist in this country
it should there's just no place for
treating people that way in this country
to me that's kind of what I expected you
know it's it's Florida we're like we
really don't care no we on the Left
certainly do not care a lot of the the
right and a lot of the Trump supporters
I actually do believe that that is one
of their issues that they feel strong
about in terms of keeping America first
making sure that we can take care of our
own ironically they don't really want to
do that either but there is this very
strong sentiment that I that we've all
been feeling in the past few years
there's very anti other whether it's
Muslims immigrants poor brown people
from Mexico or wherever we think they're
coming from and this is the key thing
that I implore to everybody the source
of your issue is the source of your
problems is never from the poor
disenfranchised people that are below
you socioeconomically that is never the
source of the issue the source of the
issue is up and never down so when we're
talking about any sort of maltreatment
are not even welcoming immigrants to
this country it's a
horan to me I find it sickening and I it
makes my skin crawl so it's not and not
only that but factually speaking and
from a criminal justice perspective the
immigrants are infinitely less likely to
be perpetrators of crime in this country
than the people that are from here so
it's not even based on any sort of
reasonable basis there's no basis other
than fear factor and so I I don't
usually ever get behind anything that
isn't fact and reason based and having
any sort of dislike or mistrust of
immigrants is completely irrational well
you know I'm up here in the very very
red part of Florida and the as far as
the rhetoric they're like yeah you know
build the wall or whatever but when you
actually talked to them about anybody
they've ever had contact with they're
like oh no no no not for them yeah one
of those things they bought into the
rhetoric because the person saying it
has an are behind their name but they
don't believe it themselves and they
know they don't believe it when it's
when it's placed in front of them and
anyway mass this is where the masses are
so much more infinitely dangerous when
they just follow some sort of directive
that makes absolute no logical sense
whatsoever but essentially we know this
we've seen this verb for forever you
take a bunch of people that feel like
their luck is down and they don't have
what they need and you blame them or you
blame others for their lot in life and
you blame the poor you blame the
disenfranchised you blame minorities and
it alleviates the top from anybody
looking at them as to the source of the
problem and it's just and it will never
barring immigrants and disenfranchising
poor people and people of different
ethnicities and people that are
disenfranchised hurting those people is
never going to help us it just isn't
there is no logical connection between
keeping poor people disenfranchised and
keeping us healthy and safe there
there's no can
between those things and speaking of
those people at the top for those
outside of Florida her opponent here is
extremely connected so I'm very curious
what's the plan how are you how are you
gonna go after well you know in some
respects I I do have a certain amount of
concern especially watching the past few
days that where no matter what you do
the Machine and the establishment is
just churning twice as hard against you
and I and I get that in to some extent
that is what has kept things the way
they are for for so many years but like
I said I feel somewhat hopeful that we
have seen some non corporatists be able
to slide through now it's more of a slow
trickle but and it's and it won't happen
quickly it took us and on how many years
to get into this mess it's not gonna
happen in two election cycles to get out
of it
but the reality is when I talk to people
and that's the key thing is talking to
people I'm on the ground canvassing
every single day I'm knocking on doors
that probably my opponent has never even
seen I'm going into neighborhoods that
she would never go in and doesn't know
anything about and when you go and talk
to actual people for the most part they
are just so appreciative and thankful
that someone's even coming to talk to
them that it it doesn't even matter if I
could promise the world to these people
the fact that I care enough to just come
in and talk and find out what's going on
here what can I do to help you so the
first thing is just talking to people
but the cool thing that we've done is
I've created an organization called Gen
core and Gen court-like marine core but
gen core and Gen core is what I call our
volunteers and we are out doing
community service every day throughout
the district I am getting connected with
nonprofits municipalities I have people
going to meetings saying how can we help
you
and the idea like I said is if
congressional representation is a term
of service then we need to just be doing
the service so basically win or not
we're just doing the job we're out there
showing this congressional district what
it's supposed to look like having a
representative that actually is present
in your district knows what's going on
cares about you
and is working to find solutions and not
everything has a solution
not every not everybody can be helped
but it is amazing how people respond
when you tell them yeah we're here just
to serve you I'm actually here to find
out what can we do to help you so
whether it's cleaning beaches we do
parks we do the mobile school pantry we
work at the Veterans nursing home
basically everywhere I can find a link
to where we can be sending somebody to
serve that's what I've been doing and
I've been doing it now for a little less
than a year and it's amazing so I I feel
to meet honestly regardless of what
happens with this election I will keep
this going I honestly don't know why she
doesn't have her own little group out
there serving the community it's really
not hard to do it's actually quite easy
it's not quite easy so I think the
combination of just being present in
these communities reaching neighbors and
community people that have never really
come out to vote that's that's a big
issue is we have mostly everybody in
Broward that could be registered is is
registered we have less than 1% of our
people that could be registered but
choose to not be registered so our issue
isn't registering voters it's getting
them to come vote and giving them a
reason to vote and of course then
educating them on closed primaries and
being registered a certain way in order
to participate and all that but really
I've been reaching into communities that
have been otherwise unengaged and
ironically those are the people that
need the most help so well that's that's
that's yeah that's how that normally
works out those that are forgotten as
far as representation they end up in the
worse or get their own self-interests
and a lot of the ways that that happens
specifically down here in the in the
black community down here and it's
worked for Debbie for very many years is
essentially you pay pastors and church
leaders and you make a donation to their
congregation and essentially they get
their their flock to support you and
instead of going about
that way I'm going into these
neighborhoods and I'm meeting the flock
and I'm finding out how I can help them
so I just have a completely different
paradigm as to how to do this and it may
work and it may not but I I do find that
it resonates and I do feel better about
what I spent this whole year just
talking about myself and then I lost
then I wasted a year of my life I spend
this whole year doing community service
and I lose then I've spent this whole
year doing community service so that's
more of just sort of helping me get
through this than anything it's somewhat
self-serving in that way but it's been
working I think well the other thing is
you build an organization like that it
will carry on even that's not under you
it will carry on so even if you lose you
when you build a community strong enough
and it doesn't matter what the
representatives do all right so is there
anything else you want to touch on well
I mean we can always make our pitch that
we need financial help as much as we
don't take we won't take corporate money
and I don't take corporate PAC money and
I I can't be bought so when you're like
that it's not so easy to raise money
because the people that are supporting
us are the people that don't have a lot
of money so we really are very much
funded on small monthly donations I
think my average donation is somewhere
like $23 actually which is why because
we asked for 23 for district 23 and if
my number keeps coming down as I get
more and more contributors but yeah I
mean we need help
we're fighting a corporate monolith and
we need people to go to gen 2020 dot-com
and donate as much as they can or even
as little as they can possibly every
little bit is a message to the machine
that we will not we do not answer to
them and I and I also want to make it
very clear that even though I'm running
as a Democrat because it really is the
only way to do that
in Florida in a gerrymander district I
have no love for that organization or
that party I do not give them money and
in fact when events come up down here
and people ask my campaign well do you
want to do this I'm like no I'm not
gonna give them money I've got people
that are hardworking people
any money from all over the country to
stand up to this establishment why would
I give money to the establishment so I
do the best I can to sort of toe the
line within the party to be able to do
this in a primary but I get a lot of
support from no party affiliates and
Republicans because they know they're
stuck with the Democrat in this district
they know that they're they're not
getting a Republican in this district so
they then have an option to have someone
that can't be bought and I think that
appeals across the political spectrum
right well I I think you'd probably find
a lot of people who would be more at
ease with somebody who's running from
their ideological standpoint what they
believe rather than you know who can
donate the most so yeah definitely make
sure you before we wrap out you give up
all the information for the websites
again is there are there any issues
specific to Broward that you want to
talk about um yeah I could I could do
that I mean I don't know that it's so
specific to Broward but it's definitely
huge here is the obvious wealth
inequality and lack of affordable
housing
Broward has one of the worst I mean
statistically as far as affordable
housing it's really really bad here and
I don't know exactly what the numbers
are but I know that we're in like the
top handful of you know urban areas
where people just cannot afford to live
and the yet there are so many wealthy
people here so it's an inequality but
interestingly I will be talking at a
rally tomorrow for the fight for 15
folks at a McDonald's that are still
making I think eight and a quarter I
think they're at eight and a quarter an
hour and you know that's just obscene it
is just so the concept of anybody
working a full-time job should be able
to live with dignity isn't radical it's
just not radical and I think the more
that I can communicate this to people in
terms of you know when someone like Jill
Biden says Oh give me a break when I was
young I have you just go get a job just
you stop complaining
well I want to say well yeah Joe but
when you were that age somebody could
work at minimum wage and still live so
yeah I get that and so to me if we would
raise the minimum wage to a living wage
and provide health care to people
simultaneously we wouldn't have to be
obsessed with this concept of affordable
housing because people would just be
able to afford to live so you know it
all needs to happen simultaneously but
down here we definitely have an
affordable housing crisis so yeah the
municipalities need to step in and we
need to build affordable housing but I
still think overall the best approach
would be to just pay people a living
wage so you would then that their
housing would be affordable so that's
definitely a big issue down here I don't
know what you see up where you are oh
we're we have like along the beach here
you have like just an insane amount of
tourism and it's year-round it never
stops
it slows a little in the winter but not
much so even like the McDonald's and
stuff like they here they're paying ten
eleven bucks an hour and if they people
live north of the bay they have
affordable housing like here because of
the way it's kind of self segregated
between the wealthy and the not wealthy
it's basically driving over the bridge
and then everything becomes affordable
because you're making three or four
dollars more an hour we don't have that
here yeah I mean that's like when you
said eight a 25 or 850 I was like wow
yeah that's that was what they were when
I was in high school that's what was
being some people in that sort of
mentality dismiss it like oh it's
teenagers now most of the people working
in McDonald's are adults and trying to
have a normal income and feed their
families so you know I just have this
crazy idea that people shouldn't have to
work three jobs and drive an uber to be
able to live so you know if you're
working a solid workweek you should be
able to afford to live this this
shouldn't be a thing in eight twenty
five is not cutting it not in the Fort
Lauderdale area and
so it's it's really I've met people in
the past year that they barely know how
they're living themselves people living
in such squalor people living in
conditions that are just not it's just
not acceptable it's just not acceptable
so I'm gonna do everything I can to make
that better for those people and yeah a
living wage would be a good start that
that that would be a good start in
honestly $15 an hour still really isn't
a living wage down here I believe it
would be about 23 from the last numbers
I heard if it had kept rising with with
cost of living I believe we'd be at
about 23 in my metro area so when
they're sitting there fighting for 15
and nobody's even willing to get its
talk about just begging for scraps well
yeah that was that was a surprising
number when you said that is it's it's
and I forget the way we're set up here
it's just the way it was developed
supply and demand yeah I mean we don't
you know if we're one of the few here
where I live is one of the few areas
where if you're make in you know 24 a
year you're completely you can be
comfortable yeah if you live here you
know if you lived south of the bay and
you're not getting anywhere all right
and if you live in Broward you're
probably not even in housing right okay
so one question I ask everybody is what
can the people watching this people at
home what's one thing they can do in
their own communities to change the
world save everything okay well you know
I I would recommend doing what we're
doing with my organization go to
community association meetings go to
homeowner association meetings go to
civic organizations go to municipalities
and listen and find out where there's
need to help there is no shortage of
need and a lot of people are very
familiar with organizations you just
need to reach out and say how can I help
you it's it's it's amazing what we can
do and the more people that you reach
out the more connections that you
the more they connect to each other I
have bridged so many organizations
together in the past year that it's
almost like I feel like I'm putting a
puzzle together and it's just really
cool to see and I it feels good and so I
would just encourage people find the
need there's no shortage there is there
is an even if it's even if it's you know
going to the library and just doing a
little bit of research and saying like
what's going on in this area and how can
I help or you know there's no I mean we
have a lot of environmental issues here
but some places it's you know maybe it
is a huge homeless problem specifically
in your area and the best way to do is
maybe have a fundraiser or a clothing
drive a lot of people are in need of
toiletries that's a huge thing among a
lot of the needy people is things like
toiletries feminine hygiene products
things that we take for granted that are
actually costly and a lot of people just
cannot afford so something like high
school students can easily do is have a
drive for used clothes or bring in you
know the little samples of stuff that
you steal from hotels and do a mass
collection and distribution there's so
many people that need so you know or go
to a beach cleanup there's there's no
shortage of beaches that need to be
cleaned all right okay give everybody
your information again your Twitter or
Facebook and your website sure so our
website is Jen chieh en 2020 comm and
Facebook is Jen Pearlman what is that no
no that's not even my facebook hold on
Jen Pearlman for Congress or is it just
Jen 20 2010 2020 is Facebook and then
Instagram and Twitter are Jen FL 23 so
that's the two that are different and um
this is where my son tells me I'm old
because I don't understand how the
Twitter and the Instagram work but it's
Jen FL 23 and yeah we just need the love
we need the support we need the word
spread and we need money alright
everybody said that's gonna wrap up the
show for today
I guess it's just a thought and we will
talk to you later